## Reflections each week by John - week 9 Final reflection

### What do I want to learn or understand better?
 - My goals from the beginning in the course was that i wanted to get better at programming better together with a group. I have realized during the course that one important aspect that is necessary to do this well is good planning. But I've also realized that sometimes its important not to plan too much and to just try and get things done instead. I believe that in the future is should further try to do more work and less planning. The reason for this is that i have sometimes felt that i haven't done as much as i could.

### How can I help someone else, or the entire team, to learn something new?
- During this project there have been a lot of different issues. But i feel that i have on occasion been able to help others with problems by simply being there and analyzing the problem and giving my input on it. I can't always necessarily help and solve the problem but i do believe that it is important that i keep on trying. Furthermore i believe that programming in groups or learning new things in groups is easier than trying to learn something alone so i will take that into account in the future.

### What is my contribution towards the team’s application of scrum?
- I have tried to participate in the planning process and make sure that we all have tasks to do including myself. However now i feel as if we have made too many tasks and that we won't be able to complete all of them. Since we now know what we want to do the best i can do to accomplish our goals is to make sure to try and help with some tasks and to communicate when im available. I've also made sure to try and take on some tasks for myself so that im contributing value to the team and not being passive.

### What is my contribution towards the team’s deliveries? That means that for the personal learning objective you will each week write down what you have achieved in relation to last week's ambition (technologies, concepts and skills learnt as well as how this was achieved), what you would like to achieve for the next week and how to make the change happen. The first week of the course you describe the current situation by motivating a learning objective. It is perfectly fine to change objective/s each week as long as you can motivate the change and you evaluate the outcome of the previous week (e.g. describing the current situation.
#### For the next week
This week i helped by giving some input on the send portcall feature. Unfortunately i wasn't able to work on it as much as everyone else but i still feel that the time i spent on it provided some value in completing the application. I also spent a lot of time on the final reflection and some time on one of the KPI's. During this course i have learnt a lot of things. I have learned about Javascript and using react to make apps. I have also learnt a lot about applying scrum and making sure to not spend all too much time on meetings and planning and that it is important to get things done instead. In the future i want to get even better at using agile methods. I can do this by taking my knowledge and using it in other projects. I can as an example make sure to not make such big tasks for myself and continue to reflect on how I'm doing.